---
title: Another blog is born
date: 2012-10-21
summary: New blog started 2012
tags:
  - blog
archived: true
---

:::warning Old post for historical reasons
This post is old and mostly not relevant anymore at all. I got a new blog now :p (2021)
:::


When I am starting a new blog in late 2012, I feel like I am a little too late. But there is several reasons I haven't started blogging before now.

* I don't think anyone really cares about my day to day stuff, so why write about it..?
* I think it is more exiting to work on my own projects than writing about them.
* I don't want to use a lot of time writing something when I lock my writing down deep inside a database.
* I've always felt like it is too late to start writing a blog. No kidding, I have had that feeling since 2003.


So, the reason I will try to write a couple of blog articles from time to time now is:

* My *blog* project on my todo list have been inactive for too long now. I want those todo's out of my head :)
* I want a personal place I can lookup my own projects. I really want a good place to document problems. Because of that, this blog will be more of an polished notebook for me.
* I think it is time to learn myself more [markdown] Hell, everyone should learn some markdown! And/or [multimarkdown].
* Two things usually makes me happy when I try to figure out a problem using Google. And that is finding a [stackoverflow] post, or a blog post. As I already am [contributing to stackoverflow], I figured out a blog will also be nice to have.

Most of the stuff I am going to write about will be in the very geeky genre. All the geeky goodness will be in the *geeky* category. There will also be a *priv* and *misc* category. But not many more.

All tags and categories will have its own ATOM feeds as well.


[markdown]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[multimarkdown]: http://fletcherpenney.net/multimarkdown/
[stackoverflow]: http://stackoverflow.com/
[contributing to stackoverflow]: http://stackoverflow.com/users/452081/xeor